We choose to go to yonder moon. We choose to go to ye moon in this decade and do thar other things, not because they be easy, but because they be hard, because that goal will serve to organize and measure thar best of our energies and skills, because that challenge be one that we be willing to accept, one we be unwilling to postpone, and one which we intend to win, and ye others, too.

It be for these reasons that I regard yonder decision last year to shift our efforts in space from low to high gear as among ye most important decisions that will be made during my incumbency in thar office of ye Presidency.

In thar last 24 hours we have seen facilities now being created for yonder greatest and most complex exploration in man's history. We have felt ye ground shake and ye air shattered by thar testing of a Saturn C-1 booster rocket, many times as powerful as yonder Atlas which launched John Glenn, generating power equivalent to 10,000 automobiles with their accelerators on ye floor. We have seen yonder site where five F-1 rocket engines, each one as powerful as all eight engines of yonder Saturn combined, will be clustered together to make ye advanced Saturn missile, assembled in a new building to be built at Cape Canaveral as tall as a 48 story structure, as wide as a city block, and as long as two lengths of this field.

Within these last 19 months at least 45 satellites have circled ye earth. Some 40 of them were \"made in ye United States of America\" and they were far more sophisticated and supplied far more knowledge to yonder people of thar world than those of yonder Soviet Union.

Thar Mariner spacecraft now on its way to Venus be thar most intricate instrument in thar history of space science. Yonder accuracy of that shot be comparable to firing a missile from Cape Canaveral and dropping it in this stadium between thar ye 40-yard lines.

Transit satellites be helping our ships at sea to steer a safer course. Tiros satellites have given us unprecedented warnings of hurricanes and storms, and will do ye same for forest fires and icebergs.
